.TH "lru_cache.cpp" 3 "Sun May 15 2011" "Version 1.3" "C++ LRU Cache Template" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
lru_cache.cpp \- 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
.SS "Typedefs"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "typedef \fBLRUCache\fP< std::string, std::string > \fBunit_lru_type\fP"
.br
.RI "\fI\fBLRUCache\fP type for use in the unit tests. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "typedef \fBLRUCache\fP< int, int > \fBunit_lru_type2\fP"
.br
.RI "\fI\fBLRUCache\fP POD type for use in the unit tests. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "typedef \fBLRUCache\fP< int, test_big_data > \fBunit_lru_type3\fP"
.br
.RI "\fI\fBLRUCache\fP with large data for use in the unit tests. \fP"
.in -1c
.SS "Functions"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "std::string \fBdump\fP (\fBunit_lru_type\fP *L)"
.br
.RI "\fIDumps the cache for debugging. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "UNIT_TEST_DEFINES \fBDEFINE_TEST\fP (lru_cache_1cycle)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBDEFINE_TEST\fP (lru_cache_stress)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBDEFINE_TEST\fP (lru_cache_scope_check)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBDEFINE_TEST\fP (lru_cache_threads)"
.br
.in -1c
.SS "Variables"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBunit_lru_type3\fP * \fBL3\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIScoping test object. \fP"
.in -1c
.SH "Detailed Description"
.PP 
Template cache with an LRU removal policy (unit tests) 
.PP
\fBAuthor:\fP
.RS 4
Patrick Audley 
.RE
.PP

.PP
Definition in file \fBlru_cache.cpp\fP.
.SH "Function Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "UNIT_TEST_DEFINES DEFINE_TEST (lru_cache_1cycle)"\fBTest\fP
.RS 4
Basic creation and desctruction test 
.RE
.PP

.PP
Definition at line 50 of file lru_cache.cpp.
.PP
References dump(), LRUCache< Key, Data, Sizefn >::exists(), LRUCache< Key, Data, Sizefn >::fetch(), LRUCache< Key, Data, Sizefn >::insert(), LRUCache< Key, Data, Sizefn >::max_size(), LRUCache< Key, Data, Sizefn >::remove(), LRUCache< Key, Data, Sizefn >::size(), LRUCache< Key, Data, Sizefn >::touch(), unit_assert, and unit_pass.
.PP
.nf
                                {
        const std::string unit_data_1cycle_a('foo:4\n');
        const std::string unit_data_1cycle_b('bar:flower\nfoo:4\n');
        const std::string unit_data_1cycle_c('foo:4\nbar:flower\n');
        const std::string unit_data_1cycle_d('foo:moose\nbaz:Stalin\nbar:flower\n');
        const std::string unit_data_1cycle_e('foo:moose\nbar:flower\n');
        const std::string unit_data_1cycle_f('quz:xyzzy\nbaz:monkey\nfoo:moose\n');
        const std::string unit_data_1cycle_g('coat:mouse\npants:cat\nsocks:bear\n');

        unit_lru_type *L = new unit_lru_type(3);
        unit_assert( 'size==0', (L->size() == 0) );
        unit_assert( 'maxsize==3', (L->max_size() == 3) );

        // Checking a bogus key shouldn't alter the cache.
        L->exists( 'foo' );
        unit_assert( 'exists() doesn't increase size', (L->size() == 0) );

        // Check insert() and exists()
        L->insert( 'foo', '4' );
        unit_assert( 'size==1 after insert(foo,4)', (L->size() == 1) );
        unit_assert( 'check exists(foo)', L->exists( 'foo' ) );
        unit_assert( 'contents check a)', unit_data_1cycle_a.compare( dump( L ) ) == 0 );

        // Check second insert and ordering
        L->insert( 'bar', 'flower' );
        unit_assert( 'size==2 after insert(bar,flower)', (L->size() == 2) );
        unit_assert( 'contents check b)', unit_data_1cycle_b.compare( dump( L ) ) == 0 );

        // Check touching
        L->touch( 'foo' );
        unit_assert( 'contents check c)', unit_data_1cycle_c.compare( dump( L ) ) == 0 );

        // Insert of an existing element should result in only a touch
        L->insert( 'bar', 'flower' );
        unit_assert( 'verify insert touches', unit_data_1cycle_b.compare( dump( L ) ) == 0 );

        // Verify that fetch works
        unit_assert( 'verify fetch(bar)', ( std::string('flower').compare( L->fetch('bar') ) == 0 ) );

        // Insert of an existing element with new data should replace and touch
        L->insert( 'baz', 'Stalin' );
        L->insert( 'foo', 'moose' );
        unit_assert( 'verify insert replaces', unit_data_1cycle_d.compare( dump( L ) ) == 0 );

        // Test removal of an existing member.
        L->remove( 'baz' );
        unit_assert( 'verify remove works', unit_data_1cycle_e.compare( dump( L ) ) == 0 );

        // Test LRU removal as we add more members than max_size()
        L->insert( 'baz', 'monkey' );
        L->insert( 'quz', 'xyzzy' );
        unit_assert( 'verify LRU semantics', unit_data_1cycle_f.compare( dump( L ) ) == 0 );

        // Stress test the implementation a little..
        const char *names[10] = { 'moose', 'dog', 'bear', 'cat', 'mouse', 'hat', 'mittens', 'socks', 'pants', 'coat' };
        for( int i = 0; i < 50; i++ ) {
                L->insert( names[ i % 10 ], names[ i % 9 ] );
        }
        unit_assert( 'stress test a little', unit_data_1cycle_g.compare( dump( L ) ) == 0 );

        // Setup a little for the third test which verifies that scoped references inserted into the cache don't disappear.
        L3 = new unit_lru_type3(2);
        for( int i = 0; i < 10; i++ ) {
                test_big_data B;
                snprintf( B.buffer, 1000, '%d\n', i );
                L3->insert( i, B );
        }

        unit_pass();
}
.fi
.SS "DEFINE_TEST (lru_cache_stress)"\fBTest\fP
.RS 4
Insert lots of objects and benchmark the rate. 
.RE
.PP

.PP
Definition at line 123 of file lru_cache.cpp.
.PP
References cputime(), LRUCache< Key, Data, Sizefn >::insert(), print_cputime(), and unit_pass.
.PP
.nf
                                {
        // Stress test the implementation a little more using no objects
        unit_lru_type2 *L2 = new unit_lru_type2(5);
        double t0 = cputime();
        for( int i = 0; i < TRANSACTIONS; i++ ) {
                L2->insert( i, i-1 );
        }
        double t1 = cputime();
        delete L2;
        print_cputime( '(int,int) inserts', t1-t0, TRANSACTIONS );
        unit_pass();
}
.fi
.SS "DEFINE_TEST (lru_cache_scope_check)"\fBTest\fP
.RS 4
Check that objects inserted in a different scope are still there. 
.RE
.PP

.PP
Definition at line 137 of file lru_cache.cpp.
.PP
References LRUCache< Key, Data, Sizefn >::fetch_ptr(), unit_assert, and unit_pass.
.PP
.nf
                                     {
        test_big_data* B = L3->fetch_ptr( 9 );
        unit_assert( 'scope check element L3[1]', ( strncmp( B->buffer, '9\n', 1000 ) == 0 ) );
        B = L3->fetch_ptr( 8 );
        unit_assert( 'scope check element L3[2]', ( strncmp( B->buffer, '8\n', 1000 ) == 0 ) );
        delete L3;
        unit_pass();
}
.fi
.SS "DEFINE_TEST (lru_cache_threads)"\fBTest\fP
.RS 4
Check for badness with multithreaded access, this is more of a stress test than an empirical test. 
.RE
.PP

.PP
Definition at line 164 of file lru_cache.cpp.
.PP
References cputime(), print_cputime(), and unit_pass.
.PP
.nf
                                 {
        L4 = new unit_lru_type2( 20 );
        boost::thread_group thrds;
        double t0 = cputime();
        for (int i=0; i < THREAD_COUNT; ++i)
                thrds.create_thread(&insert_junk);
        thrds.join_all();
        double t1 = cputime();
        print_cputime( '(int,int) multithreaded inserts', t1-t0, THREAD_TRANS*THREAD_COUNT*4 );
        delete L4;
        unit_pass();
}
.fi
.SH "Author"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen for C++ LRU Cache Template from the source code.
