.TH "unit_test.h" 3 "Sun May 15 2011" "Version 1.3" "C++ LRU Cache Template" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
unit_test.h \- 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
.SS "Defines"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBUNIT_TEST_DEFINES\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIStart of inline Unit Test definitions Use this to start the list of unit tests. This should be followed by one or more DEFINE_TEST entries. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBDEFINE_TEST\fP(test_name)   bool unit_test_##test_name (void)"
.br
.RI "\fIStart a new test definition. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBADD_TEST\fP(test_name)   add_test( &unit_test_##test_name );"
.br
.RI "\fIAdds a defined test to test run. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBUNIT_TEST_RUN\fP(suite)"
.br
.RI "\fIStart a Unit test run section. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBunit_assert\fP(msg, cond)"
.br
.RI "\fIUse within a Unit Test to verify a condition. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBunit_pass\fP()   return true;"
.br
.RI "\fIUse to end a unit test in success. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBunit_fail\fP()   return false;"
.br
.RI "\fIUse to end a unit test in failure. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBUNIT_TEST_END\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIFinish a Unit Test run section. \fP"
.in -1c
.SS "Typedefs"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "typedef bool(* \fBtest_func\fP )(void)"
.br
.RI "\fItypedef for unittest functions \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "typedef std::vector< \fBtest_func\fP > \fBtest_vector\fP"
.br
.RI "\fItypedef for vectors of unittest functions \fP"
.in -1c
.SS "Functions"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "double \fBcputime\fP (void)"
.br
.RI "\fIGets the current CPU time with microsecond accuracy. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "double \fBtransactions_per_second\fP (double run_time, unsigned long transactions)"
.br
.RI "\fICalculates the transactions rate. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBprint_cputime\fP (const char *msg, double run_time, unsigned long transactions=0)"
.br
.RI "\fIPrints to stdout the results of timing an event. \fP"
.in -1c
.SH "Detailed Description"
.PP 
Unit Testing framework for C++ 
.PP
\fBAuthor:\fP
.RS 4
Patrick Audley 
.RE
.PP
\fBDate:\fP
.RS 4
December 2004
.RE
.PP
\fB\fP
.RS 4
See full documentation for this framework in \fBUnit Testing Framework\fP 
.RE
.PP

.PP
Definition in file \fBunit_test.h\fP.
.SH "Define Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "#define DEFINE_TEST(test_name)   bool unit_test_##test_name (void)"
.PP
Start a new test definition. \fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fItest_name\fP Name of the test - must be unique in this unit test suite. 
.RE
.PP

.PP
Definition at line 184 of file unit_test.h.
.SS "#define ADD_TEST(test_name)   add_test( &unit_test_##test_name );"
.PP
Adds a defined test to test run. \fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fItest_name\fP Test name of a previously defined test to add the the current suite. 
.RE
.PP
\fBSee also:\fP
.RS 4
\fBDEFINE_TEST\fP \fBUNIT_TEST_RUN\fP This should be called after \fBUNIT_TEST_RUN\fP for each defined test. 
.RE
.PP

.PP
Definition at line 191 of file unit_test.h.
.SS "#define UNIT_TEST_RUN(suite)"\fBValue:\fP
.PP
.nf
int main(void) { \
  bool result = true; \
  std::cout << '---[ ' << suite << ' ]--- ' << std::endl;
.fi
.PP
Start a Unit test run section. \fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIsuite\fP Name for this test suite. 
.RE
.PP
\fBNote:\fP
.RS 4
Must be terminated with an UNIT_TEST_END statement. 
.RE
.PP

.PP
Definition at line 197 of file unit_test.h.
.SS "#define unit_assert(msg, cond)"\fBValue:\fP
.PP
.nf
std::cout << '  ' << msg << ': ' << std::flush; \
  if( !cond ) { std::cout << 'FAILED' << std::endl; return false; } \
  std::cout << 'PASSED' << std::endl;
.fi
.PP
Use within a Unit Test to verify a condition. \fBWarning:\fP
.RS 4
Terminates test on failure. 
.RE
.PP

.PP
Definition at line 205 of file unit_test.h.
.PP
Referenced by DEFINE_TEST().
.SS "#define unit_pass()   return true;"
.PP
Use to end a unit test in success. \fBNote:\fP
.RS 4
Either unit_pass or unit_fail should end every test. 
.RE
.PP

.PP
Definition at line 213 of file unit_test.h.
.PP
Referenced by DEFINE_TEST().
.SS "#define unit_fail()   return false;"
.PP
Use to end a unit test in failure. \fBNote:\fP
.RS 4
Either unit_pass or unit_fail should end every test. 
.RE
.PP

.PP
Definition at line 218 of file unit_test.h.
.SH "Function Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "double cputime (void)\fC [inline]\fP"
.PP
Gets the current CPU time with microsecond accuracy. \fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
microseconds since UNIX epoch 
.RE
.PP

.PP
Definition at line 139 of file unit_test.h.
.PP
Referenced by DEFINE_TEST().
.PP
.nf
                              {
  getrusage( RUSAGE_SELF, &ruse );
        return ( ruse.ru_utime.tv_sec + ruse.ru_stime.tv_sec + 1e-6 * (ruse.ru_utime.tv_usec + ruse.ru_stime.tv_usec ) );
}
.fi
.SS "double transactions_per_second (double run_time, unsigned long transactions)\fC [inline]\fP"
.PP
Calculates the transactions rate. \fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIrun_time\fP microsecond resolution run time 
.br
\fItransactions\fP number of transactions handled in run_time seconds This is useful if you want to guarantee minimun transactional throughputs in unit tests. 
.RE
.PP
\fBWarning:\fP
.RS 4
This code is obviously very test platform dependent. 
.RE
.PP

.PP
Definition at line 149 of file unit_test.h.
.PP
Referenced by print_cputime().
.PP
.nf
                                                                                     {
        return (double)transactions / run_time;
}
.fi
.SS "void print_cputime (const char * msg, double run_time, unsigned long transactions = \fC0\fP)\fC [inline]\fP"
.PP
Prints to stdout the results of timing an event. \fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fImsg\fP to print with the numbers 
.br
\fIrun_time\fP microsecond resolution run time 
.br
\fItransactions\fP number of transactions handled in run_time seconds, if 0 then transactional output is suppressed 
.RE
.PP
\fBWarning:\fP
.RS 4
This code is obviously very test platform dependent. 
.RE
.PP

.PP
Definition at line 158 of file unit_test.h.
.PP
References transactions_per_second().
.PP
Referenced by DEFINE_TEST().
.PP
.nf
                                                                                              {
        printf('  -> %s:  %7.3f seconds CPU time', msg, run_time );
        if( transactions != 0 )
                printf( '  (%7.3f transactions/second)', transactions_per_second( run_time, transactions ) );
        printf( '\n' );
}
.fi
.SH "Author"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen for C++ LRU Cache Template from the source code.
